# COVID-19-Vaccine-Sentiment-Analysis
Analysis of COVID-19 Vaccine Perception in India using live tweets from Twitter users.
This project uses 3 sentiment analysis models namely Abstract Based Sentiment Analysis (ABSA), Valence Aware Dictionary for Sentiment Reasoning (VADER), and TextBlob to analyse the tweets and label them as either postive, negative or neutral.
Around 21000 tweets are extracted from all parts of India from twitter using tweepy API, from 22nd February 2021 to 7th March 2021. Tweets are collected by filtering them using keywords like "vaccination", "astrazeneca", "covid vaccine", "covishield", "covaxin", etc. 
The obtained tweets are preprocessed using regular expression (regex) and getting rid of useless hashtags, retweets and mentions. To address the issue with Hinglish tweets, a text file containing most commonly used Hindi words is used, and a seperate dataset of about 520 tweets is created.
Only a sample of tweets is manually labelled as it a time comsuming task. To ensure consistency and accurate sampling of tweets, approximately 143 tweets are taken randomly from each day starting from 22nd February, 2021 and till 7th March, 2021. Thus, a sample of approximately 2000 tweets is obtained which is manually labelled.
After running all the 3 models on the labelled sample dataset, it is found that ABSA gave an accuracy of 81%, VADER 67% and TextBlob 61%. ABSA gives the highest accuracy and is thus selected as the model to label the larger dataset.
After applying the ABSA model to classify the remaining tweets, results showed that in February, the sentiments regarding the vaccination didn’t vary a lot among the three categories. However, there is a sudden spike observed in the positive tweets on and after March 1st. It is inferred that this sudden change in sentiment was brought about by the vaccination of the Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi, which we hypothesize resulted in people placing greater trust in the efficacy of the vaccine.
